%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% Drewbie %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
http://www.complexitygaming.com/forums/showthread.php?t=4456
(from http://www.teamliquid.net/forum/viewmessage.php?topic_id=293252)

Default drewbie's Strategy Guide

    Hey guys, I wanted to do something nice for all of you for the
    holidays! I have been doing lessons for almost a year now, and I think
    I am a pretty good teacher (at least my students seem happy!). I really
    want to focus on streaming for a while though, so I decided that I am
    going to take a break from doing lessons for the next month or so.
    Instead, I am just going to give it away for free! So, I wrote out a
    few of my favorite Terran strategies and did my best to explain what to
    do in every situation when playing each build. I also included some
    replays of me doing the build orders and analyzed some of the games. I
    hope that players that are trying to improve, or are thinking about
    taking lessons or have in the past will try reading this, and I hope
    that you learn something that helps to make you a better player!


  Terran vs Protoss
  ================

    So, right now against Protoss my go-to build is a one barracks no-gas
    expand. This build can stop any rushes and it gives you a good economy,
    I think it is a good all-around strategy.

    Before we get to the build-order, I just have to go over some early
    game Terran vs Protoss things that you should be doing every single
    game. Every player should learn how to scout vs Protoss, and how you
    can decipher what exactly they are about to throw at you.

    On four player maps, I send my SCV scout out at 13-14 supply depending
    on the size of the map (Shakuras / Metalopolis / Shattered you only
    have to scout two positions so you can get away with sending it out at
    14) and on two player maps, I scout when my Barracks finishes. Run
    around the Protoss’ base, check everything out, and then be sure to
    leave before 4:00 on the game timer. The reason behind this timing is
    that this is about when the Stalker finishes, and you need to keep that
    SCV alive so that it can get scouting intel later on.

    What should you look for when scouting? Well the most important thing
    to do is check if they have one or two gas geysers.

    There are really only two things that the Protoss will be doing if they
    only have one gas geyser. The first is a one gate fast expand, the
    second is pressuring you with gateway units when warpgate finishes with
    three or four warpgates. To figure out whether they are going for a
    fast expand or gateway pressure, run that SCV out of their base before
    4:00 and hide, then come back between 5:00-5:30 and if they are one
    gate expo-ing then you will see a Nexus there.

    If there is no Nexus, then the Protoss is most likely going to attack
    you as soon as warp gate finishes, so you need to build at least two
    bunkers and leave some SCVs on autorepair at the bunkers. Four-gate is
    really simple to stop if you follow all these steps and do not get
    caught with your pants down .

    If the Protoss had two gases you shouldn't be worried about a four-gate
    allin. Most likely, they are going for some sort of fast tech and a
    timing attack like a three-gate voidray / Dark Templar rush, or a
    three-gate robo timing attack. If one of these are coming, you should
    be able to stop it as long as you are prepared. You have to get an
    Engineering Bay at around 6:00 minutes in the game because Dark Templar
    rushes arrive at your base at about 7:10. If you are not sure what the
    Protoss is doing it is definitely worth it to scan their main when your
    expansion Orbital Command finishes at 6:00. These types of timing
    attacks hit around eight minutes so you need to be prepared, by making
    at least 3 bunkers and leaving some SCVs on auto-repair.

    It’s ok if you have twelve SCVs idle at your bunkers, because remember
    they are going all in here and they don't have an expansion, which
    means that about twelve SCVs plus your two mules at a time from the two
    Orbital CC's will give you the same, if not a better, income. You also
    have to get stim and combat shields as soon as possible. In fact, try
    not to engage the Protoss army, just hide behind your wall of bunkers
    and wait for the upgrades which make you waaaaaaaay more cost efficient
    vs. Protoss units.


  1 Barracks No-Gas Expand:
  10 depot
  12 barracks
  15 OC
  16 depot
  (you can actually use the same scv to build the 1st depot + barracks + 2nd depot, then send it to your expo and build the CC)
  18 CC
  20 bunker
  Stop marine production after 4 marines to get your 2nd/3rd/4th barracks up faster
  Constantly pump SCVs and build the barracks as soon as you have money
  22 2nd rax
  23 3rd rax
  23 4th rax
  24 depot
  30 depot
  Constantly pump marines and SCVs until you hit about 35 supply, then take 2 gas geysers. (@around 6:00)
  Continue making marines until you have 125 gas and then build 3 techlabs and 1 reactor on your 4 barracks.
  If the Protoss did a one-gate expand then you can move out with about
  12-16 Marines and try to punish them if they are teching too fast. Make
  sure not to over commit though. If you can kill a few stalkers and
  sentries that’s great, and it forces the Protoss to stop teching and
  spend their chronoboost on gateways instead of upgrades or probes, doing
  this also tends to trigger a lot of counter all-ins so be careful not to
  die if you lose all of your marines.

  My game plan in the midgame:
    There is a really standard way to tech up in TvP. The way I think of it
    is that it’s a balancing act. You want to tech faster than your
    opponent, but you also need to have enough bio units to hold off any
    pressure that the Protoss is going to throw at you. The idea is the
    same for the Protoss. They want to tech up as fast as possible, but
    they need to make enough gateway units to be able to hold off any bio
    timing pushes.

    If I am doing bio fast expands (there’s lots of different ways to do
    them, two rax expo or one rax reaper expand or one rax marauder expand
    or just gasless expand like my strat) I always spend my gas in the same
    way. I will have tech labs on all my Barracks except for one, which
    will have a reactor. I'll upgrade Stim / Combat Shields / Concussive
    shells and then get the +1 weapons upgrade. So that’s where my first
    475 gas goes (three techlabs + one reactor + stim + shields + conc
    shells + weapons upgrade) and once I have those I start my factory.

    When the factory finishes I make a Starport immediately and add a
    reactor on the factory so that I can make double Medivacs right when
    the Starport finishes. It's really important to get your timings down
    and not forget the Starport! Once it’s done it is very important to be
    producing non-stop out of that Starport.

    Two or four Medivac timing attacks are super strong because you get so
    much more mobility and you can heal after stimming. It actually only
    takes three vespene geysers with three scvs each on them to produce up
    to this point, and you should have enough gas to macro five barracks +
    one reactored Starport with just the three geysers. If you want to take
    a fast third expansion then hold off on getting the fourth gas, but I
    usually take it and get a fast second engineering bay + Armory and
    start upgrading +1 armor / +2 attack and make a Ghost Academy.

    While the Starport is building, add a fourth and fifth Barracks,
    because your two bases should be almost saturated by now and your money
    will start to pile up if you don't have more production. As a general
    rule of thumb, I try to have three production buildings per base that I
    have. So in TvP I go for five rax and a reactored Starport. Then, once
    I get a third base I'll make three more Barracks. Later on in the game
    though it’s better to add even more production buildings, because once
    you get to the point where you don't need to build supply depots or
    SCV's anymore, you need to start spending that extra money on units.

    No matter what opener I do in TvP, this is generally what I try to
    transition into if I am playing a standard solid style.

    I realized when playing that one of my problems was that I was not
    being aggressive enough with Protoss. As soon as you get Medivacs, you
    need to be out there in the middle of the map taking control. The
    Protoss needs to be scared that you are going to doom drop him if he
    moves out. He needs to be scared that you are going to attack him head
    on and kite all his units to death. He needs to be scared to take a
    third base for fear of being spread out too thin.

    Also, you have to realize that Medivacs are an amazing unit. You don't
    even have to be super fast or have amazing APM, just leave a scouting
    unit in front of their base and sit two Medivacs near their main base
    just out of vision and if they move out into the center drop their
    main. This should allow you to get a third base faster than the
    Protoss. This is the easy part, and I am really good at getting myself
    into a good position up until this point in the game. The hard part
    comes next.

  And this is what I try to do in the late game vs Protoss:
    Whenever I used to get ahead vs. Protoss and I knew my army was bigger,
    I was always afraid to attack into the Protoss army. I would just
    expand all over the place, take my half of the map and try to get a big
    economic advantage. It turns out that this is actually the worst thing
    you can do vs. Protoss. Their army gets more and more cost effective
    vs. the Terran army as the game goes on. Also, if you both max out and
    keep throwing armies at each other then you will never be able to kill
    him, because the Protoss will always be one round of production ahead
    of you, thanks to warp gates.

    Three bases is all a Terran needs to make the army they want. Once you
    get your three bases and get your macro set up, and upgrades going, you
    need to just go full out aggressive mode. Stop macroing, use only your
    hotkeys to build Marines and Ghosts, a few marauders and Medivacs. You
    need to focus on having the right unit composition to counter theirs.

    This is what your unit composition should look like:
    For every zealot - you need 2 marines
    For every high templar - you need 1 ghost
    For every archon - you need 2 ghosts
    For every colossus - 3 vikings
    For every stalker - 1 marauder

    Notice how each counter is the same supply as its Protoss counter-part.
    If you can do this in the late game then you should be able to win a
    200 vs 200 supply fight vs the protoss easily and cost-effectively.

    Whatever you do, DO NOT let the Protoss get a fourth base. Three base
    Protoss is manageable, but if you let them get four bases of gas,
    everything just spirals out of control. Use drops to split the Protoss'
    attention and split up their army. Bio is more cost effective in
    smaller fights, just try and chip and chip away and eventually their
    back will break and you can over run them. Also, once you get cloak,
    one Ghost can completely shut down a Protoss expansion just by building
    a nuke, dropping it on their expo, then building another one, dropping
    a nuke, rinse and repeat. It's really good and nobody does it.


    Ok so that is my TvP game plan. I have saved 3 replays of me doing this
    build and you can find them here http://www.megaupload.com/?d=MJ9WW8T7
    One of the games (vs moggi) I watched the replay and analyzed the game
    and wrote down what I was doing and what was going through my head. I
    put that on a notepad and it is zipped with the replays, be sure to
    look at that while watching the TvP FE moggi replay



  Terran vs Terran
  ===============

    TvT is an interesting match-up right now. There are so many different
    TvT builds and styles and there is no real "optimal" strategy. I'm
    going to write about two builds that I know really well and that have
    worked well in the past. One is a fast expand build that I would use on
    big maps, while the other is a one-one-one that gives you the ability
    to be aggressive and put pressure on your opponent.

  The first strategy is a 1-1-1 build:

  10 depot
  12 barracks
  13 refinery
  15 OC
  pump marines non-stop from barracks
  16 depot
  18 factory
  20 refinery
  22 depot
  build starport right when factory finishes (25 supply)
  build 3 hellions in a row from factory
  build medivac from starport right when it finishes
  the 8 marine 3 hellion 1 medivac push should be stronger than any units they can have at the time so go up to their ramp and try to scout out their unit composition and see if you can do some damage.
  You can also drop hellions in the back of their base so that you can try to kill scvs + the hellions will scout at the same time.

    At this point in the game there are a lot of different options open for
    you. The most important thing that you can do here is to find out what
    your opponent is doing and make the right unit composition to deal with
    that. Your army is very mobile and you should be able to find out
    exactly what they are doing.

    You should always send the very first Hellion out into the map to
    scout. If you see that your opponent has a Hellion too, its very likely
    that they are also doing a 1-1-1 as well and you need to have a plan to
    deal with cloak banshees. If you don't see a Hellion, but you go up
    their ramp to scout and there is only a couple of Marines, that also
    indicates that they are teching. If you don't know what they are doing
    then use a scan, at 6:20 (instead of dropping a third mule).

    You have to play proactively. You can transition into a really, really
    strong one-base play with either cloaked banshees or a Tank push. Or,
    if they are going banshees then you should make a Viking and then a
    raven. You can also just cut units and make an expansion and keep them
    contained with the threat of Hellion drops.

    With this opening, I always transition into Marine Tank. Once your
    expansion is up and running, you need to have six production facilities
    (three per base). The standard for Marine Tank is to make three
    Barracks (two reactors and one techlab), two factories, and one
    Starport with a reactor. If you have all four gas geysers and are
    saturated on two bases you can easily produce five Marines / two Tanks
    / two Medivacs non-stop, and have a bit of gas leftover for upgrading,
    and enough extra minerals to take a third base.

  The second strategy is a one barracks fast expand:
  10 depot ( at wall )
  12 barracks ( at wall )
  15 OC
  16 depot
  build 2 marines then liftoff barracks from wall, land in main and make 2 more marines
  18 CC in main
  19 take both refineries
  21 bunker at ramp ( where barracks used to be )
  25 factory ( build it as soon as you have 100 gas )
  27 build 2nd CC into Orbital
  28 techlab on barracks ( when factory is about half done )
  30 depot
  31 starport ( build starport as soon as factory finishes )
  build a reactor with the barracks
  6:20 in the game, SCAN YOUR OPPONENTS MAIN

    Ok so, now you just did a 1-1-1 except there was a CC thrown in first.
    From this point on, just like with the other TvT strat you have to play
    reactively. Make sure to always SCV scout with this B.O at around 13-14
    supply, you want to check and see if your opponent is doing a no gas
    expand like you, or if they did gas before barrack, or if they are
    going reapers.

    If they go no gas expand, put your Starport on the reactor and go for
    cloaked banshees. Also, float your CC down to your expansion as soon as
    it is finished turning into an orbital command and make a bunker at
    your expo.

    If they go gas before Barracks, there are only two builds that it could
    be: one is fast blue flame Hellion into mech (which was all the rage a
    few months ago before the blue flame nerf but almost nobody does it
    anymore lol), the other is a super fast banshee.

    If you scout gas first, then you will need to make an Engineering Bay
    at around 5:00-5:30 and build one turret in your mineral line and one
    turret over your production. Then, build a Viking as soon as that
    Starport finishes. It is ok if you lose a few SCVs to their harass,
    because you will have a massive economic lead from making such a fast
    second command center.

    If you scout that they are making reapers, just leave one Marine in
    your bunker and keep the rest of your Marines together (do not split
    them up) and try to predict where it will jump up into your base so
    that you can deny it.

    If they just go for a normal 12 rax, 13 gas tech build, then you will
    most likely have to worry about one of two things: first is a
    Marine/Tank timing push, second is cloak banshees. When you scan your
    opponent at 6:20, you should be able to figure out which of the two he
    is doing, and you should have time to react accordingly.

    Tank / Viking is the best way to stop any sort of early pressure. You
    must have air control, so that you can use the Vikings to give vision
    for your Tanks. Plus, you will be able to push them back and secure
    your expansion.

    You don't need that many Tanks, only one or two, just make sure that
    you keep them alive and that you have some SCVs on auto-repair near
    them. You will have a ton of SCVs at this point so it won't hurt your
    economy at all if you pull off six SCVs to repair and stop his push.

    This strat gives a really nice economy and a good transition into the
    mid game. In the replay of me doing this build against a computer, I
    maxed out in under 15 minutes with only the three rax / two factory /
    one reactor Starport. Once you have secured your expansion, you need to
    take both gas geysers right away. You will have a ton of minerals, and
    it is important to get as much gas as possible to get all your upgrades
    + Tank count up.


    Ok so those are my two go-to TvT early game plans, and now for the mid-late game:


    Marine/Tank/Medivac is the most cost effective unit composition in TvT,
    unless they are going mech (Tank /Hellion/Viking). In that case, you
    need to add Marauders to your army as Marauder/Tank is really good
    against mech. So, once your macro is all set up, and you have stim and
    combat shields, a couple of Medivacs and a handful of Tanks, it's time
    to go out and put pressure on your opponent.

    The key to Marine/Tank is to get sieged up in really good positions and
    force your opponent to attack in to your already sieged Tanks. Using
    drops (just 8 Marines in a Medivac) is a really good way to harass your
    opponent and it also forces them to pull their army back to deal with
    it which gives you a good opportunity to push forward with your main
    army and siege in a good location.

    You have to try to be cost-effective with your engagements at all
    times. It is better to just play safe than to run into a situation
    where you aren't sure if you will come out ahead.

    Upgrades are also super important in TvT. If you upgrade +1 vehicle
    weapons then your Tanks will kill enemy Tanks in three hits instead of
    four, which is a huge advantage if your opponent does not have +1.
    Marine upgrades are huge too. If you do an eight Marine drop in their
    main and you have 1-1 upgrades and your opponent is 0-0, he will need
    to send a lot more Marines to deal with it, opening up different places
    for you to attack.

    I really like using nukes to push my opponent back when this happens.
    You can nuke their Tanks, just make sure that you are far enough back
    that they cannot hit your Ghost, and it will force your opponent to
    unsiege and back up. When they back up, you need to advance your Tanks
    forward, and continue doing so until you can find a hole in their
    defense or push one of their expansions.

    If both players are evenly matched, it can end up being a split map
    hour long game pretty easily. If that happens, don't worry about taking
    all your bases as fast as possible. Just make sure that you have at
    least three bases running, and secure your side of the map from drops
    with turret rings and sensor towers everywhere. There is a point in TvT
    where you should realize that you will never be able to kill each other
    if you stay on ground units. You have to realize this point in time
    before your opponent and get ready for an air war ( which is not
    necessarily a bad thing, I for one enjoy those huge sky terran fights

    The next phase of the game turns into BC /Viking/Raven/Thor. Don't try
    and get there too fast though, you need to have enough money saved up
    so that if your opponent decides to all out attack you and trade
    armies, that you have enough money in the bank to re-make Marines/Tanks
    while teching to BCs.

    If you see your opponent teching to BCs too fast, usually you can kill
    them before they get enough BCs. If you have 3-3 Marines and they have
    0-0 or 1-1 upgrades on their BCs then the Marines will absolutely
    destroy them. BCs are only good late game if they have 2-2 or 3-3
    upgrades. Once BC's get 3-3 then the Marines barely tickle the BCs and
    the Marines become useless.

    You want a balanced army of Vikings and BCs. You only need enough BCs
    to kill your opponent's ground forces. Vikings are the best air to air
    unit in TvT. I would say you only need like six to eight BCs and the
    rest Vikings. Also, two to four Ravens are really useful if you can
    spare the extra gas. When the fight starts, send the Ravens in to
    suicide Seeker Missile your opponent's Vikings.

    TvT is fun sometimes, but it can also be really frustrating at other
    times. If you have a solid gameplan that accounts for everything that
    your opponent can throw at you, and you practice it and work hard at it
    then you will find that TvT becomes a lot more fun and easier.


    OK so here are some replays of me playing these strategies: http://www.megaupload.com/?d=BOWLFH5P
    There are 3 replays, and in 2 of them I watched the replay and analyzed what I was doing and pointed out my own mistakes so that you won't make them ! The 2 notepads are in the zip file with the replays, check them out when you watch.


 Terran vs Zerg
 ==============

    This is my favorite match up to play right now, it comes down to having
    good micro and making really smart decisions with your army control, as
    well as having good multitasking to harass the crap out of your
    opponent. My first strategy is a reactor-hellion opener where you
    expand fast and then transition to a two base timing attack. The second
    is a 1 barracks no-gas expand into blue-flame hellions that gives you
    an awesome economy and a chance to toast some drones, and then
    transitions into either marine tank or mech, whichever you prefer.

  Reactor Hellion Opener:
  10 depot
  12 barracks
  13 gas
  15 OC
  16 depot
  build 2 marines then stop
  18 factory
  19 reactor
  21 Command Center
  22 depot ( use the SCV that built the factory to make it )
  switch factory onto the reactor
  23 build 2 hellions
  27 techlab on rax
  when the 2 hellions finish put the factory onto the techlab that the barracks made and put the barracks onto the reactor and start pumping out 2 marines + tanks non-stop.
  Go out and scout with the hellions, just leave them infront of the zergs base and try to deny creep spread ( it will help you later on when you push ) and it will give you a heads up if roaches or anything is coming at you.
  35 2nd + 3rd barracks
  39 2nd refinery
  39 depot
  when the 2nd + 3rd barracks finish, build 1 techlab and upgrade combat shields as soon as the tech lab finishes
  produce scvs, marines and tanks non-stop
  when you float your 2nd CC to your expo, make your supply depots down there in a wall, to stop zergling counterattacks when you move out
  once you have 4 tanks, that is the timing to move out ( at about 9:30, combat shields is about to finish as well )
  while you are moving out, take a 3rd refinery, and add a 4th rax and a 2nd factory, and build a reactor on the 3rd rax.

    This timing is really strong. If the Zerg is going Mutalisks then they
    will be making right when you move out. The Zerg makes Mutas so that he
    can contain you with them, control the map, and get a third base up and
    running. By attacking him right now you force him to use the Mutas
    defensively, and Muta are not very good in a head on fight, especially
    when you have about 25 Marines with combat shields.

    If they are going Roach, Ling, or Baneling then having 4 Tanks and
    spreading out your Marines is really strong as well. Just make sure
    that you do not blindly walk onto the creep. If you fight the Zerg off
    creep, you will destroy him with this army. But if you step onto creep
    and are all clumped up then you can easily get surrounded by Zerglings
    and Banelings and be in big trouble.

    You need to focus all of your attention on this army, making sure that
    the Marines are spread out, the Tanks too. Try to siege one Tank ahead
    of the others, spread every Marine out, and then send five to six
    Marines in to harass/bait the Zerg into attacking into your army. Make
    sure that you scan and kill the creep tumors so that they cannot see
    your army. It is important to scout for a 3rd base while you are doing
    this push. If they have a 3rd and you can eliminate all of the zerg's
    creep and take out his 3rd base then you should be in a really good
    position to win with a follow up push.

    Try to get into the most abusive position possible, for example on
    Shattered temple you can seige by the gold base and just have 1 tank in
    front shelling their expansion. If you spread your units out really
    well, then the battle should go in your favor, and even if you lose the
    fight it will probably have been pretty cost-effective for you. You
    should be able to just continue pushing over and over, and trying to
    get into good positions, while slowly taking a 3rd base and keeping
    your macro going.

    Constant aggression like this agaisnt zerg is really strong. If your
    first push kills all his creep tumors, then the next time you push it
    will be a lot easier for you. Putting pressure on Zergs like this also
    forces them to make mistakes, if a zerg misses larva injects then they
    lose larva forever. If you forget to drop mules for a while you can
    always go back to your base and drop 6 at the same time, the Zerg can't
    do that and if you force them to miss injects then they will not be
    able to keep up with your constant pressure.

    Another reason why this is so strong is because Zerg has to choose to
    either make units or drones. If you are constantly attacking them then
    they will have to make only units, and every time Zerg wants to build a
    building then they lose a drone. You can make both SCVs and units so
    you should be able to pull ahead economically.


  1 Barracks Gasless Expand:
  10 depot
  12 barracks
  15 OC
  pump marines nonstop
  16 depot
  once you have 400 minerals make CC ( 18-19 supply )
  double gas when 150 minerals at 20-21 supply
  23 make bunker at expo
  24 depot
  when you have 100 gas make 1st factory ( around 27-29 supply )
  2nd 100 gas make 2nd factory ( around 28-30 supply )
  at 50 gas make reactor on barrack ( stop pumping marines after 6 to make reactor )
  OC when expo done around 30 supply
  tech lab on first factory ( around 30-31 supply )
  switch 2nd factory with barracks reactor
  36 supply depot
  upgrade pre-igniter right when techlab finishes
  pump hellions non-stop from both factories
  42 supply depot
  try to keep well ahead on supply depots, even making 2 at once, you will have extra minerals at this point
  52 engineering bay + armory
  52 take 3rd + 4th gas geysers at expo
  attack with hellions right when pre-igniter finishes at around 60 supply
  62 after you move out to attack,lift off factory with a reactor and make a techlab
  At this point in the game there are two routes that you can go: First, you can go mech. Second, you can go Marine/Tank. It's up to you.

    OK I am going to go Inception style here and make a spoiler within a spoiler
    If you like going mech:
    ----------------------

    Add a third factory (you should have two techlabs and one reactor) and
    build a third CC. Your goal should be to continually harass with
    Hellions to distract them while getting that third base up. If you go
    mech you need to PF that third base because Tanks and Thors are
    freaking slow.

    You need to react to what the Zerg is doing at this point. The initial
    blue flame Hellion timing attack should give you a really good idea of
    what your opponent is doing. Basically, you just need to find out if
    they are going Roach or Muta, which are the two most common counters to
    mech.

    If they are going Roach then you do not need to make any Thors, just
    keep making Tanks and Hellions, and maybe a Starport to do some Hellion
    drops. You have to make sure that you are safe, because it is very easy
    to mass up a 200/200 army of Roaches and just A-move to victory as a
    Zerg.

    Your Tanks should always be sieged in good defensive positions and you
    should make supply depots at your expansions in a wall so that the Zerg
    units can't get up close to the Tanks. Also, make sure that you are
    constantly scouting.

    Roach is good in the mid-game but it is absolutely horrible in late
    game, so the Zerg must switch out of Roaches. If your opponent is
    sitting back and not putting any pressure on you, it is a pretty safe
    bet that he is transitioning into either Mutas or Broodlords. You must
    not get caught with your pants down when the Z switches to Muta. It
    really happens a lot. Mech is really gas heavy, so it won't really hurt
    you at all if you make some turrets around your bases. They are good
    even if the Zerg doesn't make Mutas, as they stop any Overlord/Overseer
    scouting, as well as Roach drops and Nydus worms.

    It is just all about being safe, because when it gets to the late game
    you will have a huge ball of death that cannot be stopped!

    If you attack them with blue flame Hellions and they have only
    Zerglings, you should be able to run into their base because, well,
    Hellions own lings right? You'll also be able to roast a bunch of
    drones and scout to see what they are up to. Most likely there will be
    a Spire that will finish around 10:00.

    The timing for the Armory with this build order is pretty fast. It
    should start around eight minutes and if you suspect Mutas you will
    have plenty of time to get two Thors out. Do not over make turrets when
    you are doing this. Just make one turret at each mineral line and one
    over your factories to protect your addons. Leave one Thor at each base
    to defend the Muta harass and just build up an army until you are ready
    to push.

    The one thing that is tough about mech is knowing exactly when to
    attack. The best time is when the Zerg is making a Hive, as they will
    be saving up money for (most likely) Broodlords and making Corruptors.
    Also, a Muta/Ling/Baneling army gets weaker and weaker the more splash
    damage and upgrades that your army has.

    So once you have three bases, you should be scanning the Zerg every two
    minutes or so to look for that Hive timing. If you don't scout the Hive
    in time, and miss your timing window, its ok. You just need to switch
    into Vikings + Ghosts to defend against Broodlords. You can actually
    split the map in half and never attack once if you feel like it. You
    will probably get flamed a lot, but it is super strong

    If you would rather go Marine/Tank:
    ---------------------------------
    you need to get a Techlab on that Barracks around the time that you are
    going to move out with Hellions and start upgrading stim ASAP. You need
    to gain map control with the Hellions and make the Zerg defend, while
    you add a third command center and a lot of production.

    Also make sure that you are upgrading +1 weapons from both the
    Engineering Bay and the Armory. If they are going Mutas, make two Thors
    and leave them in your main bases to stop Muta harass. It's amazing how
    good Thors + turrets are together. The Mutas fly in and clump up to
    kill a turret, and then the Thor splashes them all to death.

    There are a few minutes in time where you are doing nothing but
    building up production + tech + economy and you cannot really attack
    the Zerg. But you should still be safe with the two factories building
    (Thors if they are going Mutas, or Tanks if they are going anything
    else) and be able to get your third base up.

    After you get your production set up (it should be nine production
    buildings for three bases, maybe six rax /two factories/one Starport
    with a reactor) and that is when Terran explodes with units. Now it's
    time to start pushing.

    You should be able to safely run to the edge of the Zerg's creep, but
    be careful never to step onto creep unless you are ready for a fight.
    You need to be sieged up and have a good Tank spread, as well as spread
    your Marines out as much as possible. When you see progamers do amazing
    Marine splits and stuff, you don't realize that 90% of it is that they
    were perfectly set up before the fight began, and they knew exactly
    when the Zerg was coming. One thing that I can't stress enough is that
    you always need to have your units spread out. Always.

    Just think of Muta/Ling/Baneling. Mutas + Banelings both do splash
    damage and Mutas are the only unit with range but it's only a range of
    three. Every single Terran unit is a ranged unit. The more you are
    spread out, the better you will do.


  Late game TvZ:
    is really fun. 3-3 Marines own everything, Ghosts + Vikings own
    Broodlords, and Tanks/Thors are so good against Ultralisks. You just
    need to make sure that you are scanning the Zerg every couple of
    minutes to see when that Hive is incoming.

    Usually there are other clues too. If the Zerg is constantly harassing
    you with Mutas and the Muta flock keeps getting bigger and bigger, they
    can't really be going for Hive tech yet. If they are being really
    aggressive and trying to kill you with Muta/Ling/Baneling, don't worry
    about it either.

    But if both players are just sitting there macroing, there should be a
    little alarm going off in the back of your head saying, he's making
    Broodlords!

    Once you get to the late late game agaisnt zerg you need to have a nice
    balanced army. You are going to need Marines / Tanks / Thors / Ghosts /
    Vikings / Medivacs. Good Zerg players usually start off by going
    Broodlord Infestor, and forcing you to make a lot of thors and vikings
    and then transition into Ultralisks. The key to stopping this is having
    Ghosts in your army. Ghosts can use snipe, which outranges BroodLords
    and can EMP the Infestors. Snipe is also pretty good agaisnt
    Ultralisks, but you will definitely need more than just Ghosts to do
    good DPS to the Ultralisks. Tanks and Thors are your best bet. If you
    can stay cost-effective agaisnt Zerg in the late game, and get a nice
    Ghost count of around 12-18 Ghosts you should be able to take the game.


    Here are some replays of me playing TvZ doing these two build orders: http://www.megaupload.com/?d=2CVTKTW0
    There is seven replays agaisnt zerg in that file, and for four of the games I analyzed my thought process and tried to point out any mistakes so that you won't make them too !

  TIPS
  ====
    OK and one last thing, I just wanted to share a few tips that help me to be a better player and improve:

    Having a good Hotkey setup:
    OK so one thing that every player needs is a good hotkey set-up. Every
    player needs to learn how to use them properly. If you aren't doing it
    right now, and you are trying to improve as a player then you should
    stop everything and fix it. I am going to recommend mine, but the
    important thing is that you find something you are comfortable with. I
    think the way mine is set up is pretty standard and anyone can use it.

    1 / 2 / 3 are all for units

    4 is for my command centers / orbitals / planetaries

    5 is for all of my barracks

    6 is for all of my factories

    7 is for all of my starports


    I like to hotkey all my main ground army on 1, that would be every ground unit and medivacs except for ghosts

    I hotkey my air units on 2 - vikings / ravens / BCs / banshees

    3 is for drops or commando forces that are harassing, and in TvP I always hotkey my ghosts on 3


    I think that everyone should have at least 3 control groups as a
    minimum dedicated to units, if you have ever tried microing an army
    that has ghosts / ravens / marines / tanks with them all being on 1
    hotkey it is really hard, you have to spam tab and its really
    confusing.

    Some people like to put all of their production on 1 hotkey. It is just
    personal preference, I like doing it this way so that if I need
    medivacs I can just press 7dd instead of 5 tab tab dd.

    The point of having hotkeys is to be able to do the things that you
    need to do in the least possible amounts of clicks. When I'm giving
    lessons and my students don't hotkey their army I get so frustrated.
    Their opponent attacks them and they have to left click on the minimap
    and then drag the mouse over their whole army, then tab through to find
    stim and find their ghosts to emp. It takes like 5x more clicks than it
    should. If i want to EMP a protoss army all I have to do is go 3 e
    leftclick e leftclick e leftclick 1 T A leftclick. There I just emp'd a
    protoss's whole army and attack moved my bio at them in 11 clicks. You
    can do that in 2 seconds. EZPZ

    It is the same thing with macroing, if your buildings are hotkeyed
    properly then you can macro at any time, no matter what you are looking
    at. Also you can set good rally points with your buildings which is
    also super important.


    Rally Points:
    The rally point should be a safe spot, but it should be as far out into
    the map as possible, so that your units reinforce faster. So many times
    I see people move out and set a rally point on their units, then they
    have 20 units on move command in the big fight not attacking because
    they aren't hotkeyed. Or the unit that has the rally point set on it
    dies and then all the rally points get reset, and 2 minutes later you
    wonder why you have no army, only to look back at your base and find
    100 units sitting there around your production buildings.


    Keep your base organized:


    Write it down:
    Writing things down so that you can remember really helps me out a lot,
    and I think it could help anyone. Write down the build order that you
    want to use, and write what you are going to do if you get 4 gated, or
    if the protoss goes colossus, or how you will be able to find out about
    and stop a DT rush. Then when you finish a game, go and watch the
    replay. Watch and see if you did it said on the paper, if you didn't do
    it... then would your plan on paper have worked if you had followed
    it?. If not then you need to figure out a new way to deal with that
    problem. This is how you improve, you don't just wing it every game on
    the ladder and hope that it works out. You come up with a strategy that
    you like doing, and you repeat it over and over and see how it works in
    every situation. Doing this will also increase your APM, repeating the
    same thing over and over and learning all the timings so that you can
    do it with your eyes closed is the secret to being a really fast
    player.


    Every player has his or her own strengths and weaknesses. Some players
    love to micro, some players love to macro. Some like to win games fast
    and some like to go to the long game. You can make any way work, you
    just need to find a solid build order that compliments your style, and
    figure out what you are going to do in every possible imagineable
    circumstance that could arise in a game of starcraft 2.

    I think that my strategies and gameplans are a really good start for
    any terran player below grandmasters (they work for me agaisnt top
    players), and as long as you stick to it and learn the timings and how
    to deal with what your opponent can throw at you, you will get a lot
    more consistent, you will start to predict exactly what your opponent
    is going to do and the best part is that you are going to know exactly
    what you have to do to stop it and win the game.

    Thanks for reading, I hope you enjoyed it and can use this as tool to
    help improve your game.

    CHEERS, coLdrewbie

    Oh and one last thing, I would just like to give a big thanks to my
    girlfriend Leah for editing everything and turning my wall of text into
    something that is actually readable
