11gate 3 gates pressure
http://www.teamliquid.net/forum/viewmessage.php?topic_id=273465

9 Pylon
11 Gateway (don't chronoboost until after you put the gate down and start your 12th probe; don't scout quite yet)
12 Chronoboost probes
14 Gas (15 Gas runs the risk of having just under 100 gas upon the completion of core)
14 Pylon (15 is fine as well)
15 Core, scout (if you scout earlier you won't be in a position to execute this at all)
16 Zealot
20 Stalker/WG research (CB WG until completion; you need 5 of these independently to hit our desired timing. This will come with practice. don't CB the stalker)
23 Gas (this prevents a gas steal if they take their 2nd gas after a 21 stalker which is the typical timing. This also feints a lack of press to some degree. Don't mine from this geyser until I say so!)
23 2 Gates, simultaneously
24 Pylon (in base)
24 Make a probe (Don't make a 2nd stalker)
25 2 proxy pylons (One at the bottom so that you can warp up and then mineral walk through whatever is on the ramp and make a 2nd one above the ramp. If your probe takes a zealot punch, pull it back and put a 2nd one on the low ground. It's feasible that he has a sentry out at this point, so if you get hit by a sentry on the way up or you see one come out, bring your zealot to the high ground. If he ffs behind it, put the 2nd one at the bottom of the ramp as well and target the sentry with your zealot (and stalker from the low ground if possible).
** Make another probe, or don't after the 2 pylons. You should have exactly 375 mins for the 1st warp-in if you made a probe but sometimes your mining wasn't as efficient that game so you can err on the safe side and cut this probe
** Make 3 stalkers. He can force you to warp on the low ground with good micro, but ideally you want these on the high ground. Resume probe production and you can even chronoboost probes as you wait for your next warp in
** Warp in 3 more zealots once WG cooldowns are back up. Constant probe production with a CB should NOT stop you from having 300 minerals when this happens. Once you warp these zealots in you can start mining from your 2nd geyser.
The aggressive warp-ins end here unless you judged for certain that you can kill your opponent or trade for probes cost effectively with additional warp-ins

Mental triggers for chronoboosts
gateway -> start probe : chronoboost nexus
core finished -> start warpgate : chronoboost core
23 probe -> 2nd gas : chronoboost core
23 2nd gate : chronoboost core -> 3rd gate
24 pylon : chronoboost core
start low ground proxy pylon and mineral walk up ramp : chronoboost core -> 2nd proxy pylon

http://www.teamliquid.net/forum/viewmessage.php?topic_id=414344
Parting blink build
